README.md, before:

# CommitPulse

Track daily commit volume, LOC, and push cadence across all GitHub repos. Connect a Telegram bot to receive smart reminders only when it makes sense.

## Stack
- Turborepo + pnpm monorepo
- Next.js (App Router) client
- Convex backend + cron jobs
- Clerk auth (dev mode)
- Telegram bot webhook via Next.js + Convex

## Local dev

```bash
pnpm install
pnpm run convex:dev
pnpm dev
```

## Environment

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` (or update `apps/web/.env.local`) and set:
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY`
- `CLERK_SECRET_KEY`
- `CLERK_JWT_ISSUER_DOMAIN`
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_CONVEX_URL`
- `CONVEX_URL`
- `CONVEX_DEPLOYMENT`
- `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN`
- `TELEGRAM_BOT_USERNAME`
- `TELEGRAM_WEBHOOK_SECRET`

## Convex

```bash
pnpm run convex:dev
```

To regenerate Convex types locally:

```bash
pnpm run convex:codegen
```

Then open the Convex dashboard to set env vars and deploy the cron jobs.

## Production deploy (Vercel)

- Set `CONVEX_DEPLOY_KEY` in Vercel project env vars.
- Build command is configured in `vercel.json` as `pnpm run build:prod`.
- `build:prod` does:
  1. `convex codegen`
  2. `convex deploy --cmd "pnpm turbo run build --filter=web"`

This ensures Convex backend changes are pushed before the Next.js production build runs.

## GitHub

Generate a Fine-grained PAT with `repo` + `read:user` scopes. Paste it in the UI to sync commits.

## Telegram

Create one shared bot with BotFather and set a webhook to your Vercel deployment:

```bash
curl -X POST \"https://api.telegram.org/bot<TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN>/setWebhook\" \\
  -H \"Content-Type: application/json\" \\
  -d '{\"url\":\"https://<your-app>.vercel.app/api/telegram/webhook\",\"secret_token\":\"<TELEGRAM_WEBHOOK_SECRET>\"}'
```

Set `TELEGRAM_BOT_USERNAME` (without `@`). Users connect the bot inside the app and confirm login. Smart reminders run every 30 minutes via Convex cron.

## Clerk

Telegram sign-in creates users without email/phone. Ensure your Clerk instance allows username-only users, or add required fields in the `/api/telegram/complete` handler.

## Security notes

- GitHub tokens are stored server-side for sync/notifications. Keep the Telegram bot token in server env variables.
- Avoid sharing `.env` files or PATs; rotate tokens if they ever leak.

Commit message:

Document GitHub env secret setup

README.md, after:

# CommitPulse

Track daily commit volume, LOC, and push cadence across all GitHub repos. Connect a Telegram bot to receive smart reminders only when it makes sense.

## Stack
- Turborepo + pnpm monorepo
- Next.js (App Router) client
- Convex backend + cron jobs
- Clerk auth (dev mode)
- Telegram bot webhook via Next.js + Convex

## Local dev

```bash
pnpm install
pnpm run convex:dev
pnpm dev
```

## Environment

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` (or update `apps/web/.env.local`) and set:
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY`
- `CLERK_SECRET_KEY`
- `CLERK_JWT_ISSUER_DOMAIN`
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_CONVEX_URL`
- `CONVEX_URL`
- `CONVEX_DEPLOYMENT`
- `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN`
- `TELEGRAM_BOT_USERNAME`
- `TELEGRAM_WEBHOOK_SECRET`

## Convex

```bash
pnpm run convex:dev
```

To regenerate Convex types locally:

```bash
pnpm run convex:codegen
```

Then open the Convex dashboard to set env vars and deploy the cron jobs.

## Production deploy (Vercel)

- Set `CONVEX_DEPLOY_KEY` in Vercel project env vars.
- Build command is configured in `vercel.json` as `pnpm run build:prod`.
- `build:prod` does:
  1. `convex codegen`
  2. `convex deploy --cmd "pnpm turbo run build --filter=web"`

This ensures Convex backend changes are pushed before the Next.js production build runs.

## GitHub

Create a GitHub App and connect through the in-app `Connect GitHub` flow.

Required env vars:
- `GITHUB_APP_ID`
- `GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID`
- `GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `GITHUB_APP_PRIVATE_KEY` (single line or `\\n` escaped PEM)
- `GITHUB_APP_WEBHOOK_SECRET`
- `GITHUB_APP_SLUG` (the app slug from `github.com/apps/<slug>`)
- `GITHUB_APP_STATE_SECRET` (optional, defaults to `GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET`)

GitHub App settings:
- Setup URL: `https://<your-app>.vercel.app/api/github/setup`
- Webhook URL: `https://<your-app>.vercel.app/api/github/webhook`
- Permissions: repository `Contents: Read-only`, `Metadata: Read-only`
- Events: `push`, `installation`, `installation_repositories`

GitHub App is the only supported connection method.

## Telegram

Create one shared bot with BotFather and set a webhook to your Vercel deployment:

```bash
curl -X POST \"https://api.telegram.org/bot<TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN>/setWebhook\" \\
  -H \"Content-Type: application/json\" \\
  -d '{\"url\":\"https://<your-app>.vercel.app/api/telegram/webhook\",\"secret_token\":\"<TELEGRAM_WEBHOOK_SECRET>\"}'
```

Set `TELEGRAM_BOT_USERNAME` (without `@`). Users connect the bot inside the app and confirm login. Smart reminders run every 30 minutes via Convex cron.

## Clerk

Telegram sign-in creates users without email/phone. Ensure your Clerk instance allows username-only users, or add required fields in the `/api/telegram/complete` handler.

## Security notes

- GitHub tokens are stored server-side for sync/notifications. Keep the Telegram bot token in server env variables.
- Avoid sharing `.env` files or PATs; rotate tokens if they ever leak.
